---
layout: post
title: "Bonfires and Algorithms"
date: 2011-05-02 18:00
comments: true
categories:
---

I think the hardest part about blogging is finding subjects about which to
write.

Once I get started on a subject, it's pretty straightforward.  I'm a pretty
decent rambler.  It's actual the same with normal conversation -- once we're
talking about something, I can carry on a conversation.  However, once a given
subject lags, I have a really hard time coming up with something new about which
to talk.  I think the biggest problem is that the things about which I am most
passionate tend to bore (or at least I expect them to bore) other people --
specifically, technology.  That's what my tech blog is for -- I can geek out to
my heart's content without forcing anyone to stand there and force a smile.  =)

All kidding self-deprecation aside, now that finals and school are over, my life
is kind of boring, which is just the way I like it.  It's been so nice to *just*
work, and then come home from work and really have _nothing_ that I need to do.
It's great!  This is really my first semester I've taken off since I started
school after my mission, and it will be perfect, methinks.

Anyway, a couple of fun things that happened recently:  first, last Saturday we
had a bonfire over at my friend Shaline's house.  It was a blast, especially
because we got so many people to come from our old River Park Ward.  I miss that
ward, ever since they did the YSA reorganization a few weeks ago.  Our ward is
so different -- I'm sure it will be good, but I miss the dynamic we had before
the reorganization, and it was sure fun to hang out with a lot of those people
at the bonfire.  We ate smores, talked, laughed, and had a blast!  I've decided
I'm going to have a host a couple of those myself this summer.

In other news, a book I ordered a couple of weeks ago came yesterday.  Now, go
easy on me, but yes, I ordered a 1200 page algorithms book _for fun_.  I know,
right?  Even I recognize that that's a little ridiculous, but I *love* computer
science, and love to learn.  I very much enjoyed my algorithms class last
semester, but with all the homework from that and other classes, I wasn't able
to just learn for learning's sake.  That's the problem with school -- I just
want to audit all my classes, not do all the work!  (Obviously learning involves
doing some work, or you'll never remember any of the concepts, but still!)  So
between that book and my newfound love of the Python programming language, I
should have plenty to keep me busy this summer.

Oh ya!  Another cool thing is that my friend Andrew and I, for our Mobile
Programming final project, started on a fully-featured chat client for
iPhone/iPod.  We plan to work more on it this summer, and eventually release it
on the App Store!  We're excited about that, and I'll give more details as we
actually get closer to release.

Anyway, I think I've rambled enough for today.  So, until tomorr....er, next
week.....er, who knows?  ;-)
