---
layout: post
title: "VPS.net -- An easy-to-use, scalable VPS system"
date: 2011-11-02 18:00
comments: true
categories:
---

A couple of years ago, I decided I needed hosting space, because I wanted my
own website.  I started out with some basic hosting on Dreamhost, and then
later upgraded to their VPS (virtual private server) system, in order to host a
Minecraft server.  That was my initial reason for switching to a VPS:  for the
dedicated resources ('cause let's face it -- Minecraft is not very efficient).

However, it started to get really expensive, and I could only define dedicated
RAM on Dreamhost -- there was no dedicated CPU time, etc.  So I decided to make
a switch.  I shopped around for awhile, and then found [VPS.net][1].  Here's the
idea behind it:  you rent a series of nodes, each of which represents a
specific amount of dedicated CPU, RAM, hard drive space, and bandwidth.  You
can then create/remove different VPSs easily (and for free), using these nodes.
You can even resize a given VPS, and there will only be a little downtime for
the hard drive re-sizing.  It was a dream come true.  I got full root access,
and could give my Minecraft server as much dedicated resources as it needed.

Fast-forward a little.  Today I no longer run a Minecraft server.  It was just
too unstable and I didn't like the time I had to spend upgrading it all the
time.  However, I am still a 4-node subscriber on VPS.net.  Why?  Because it's
still the best value, and gives me the most freedom.  Nowadays I use it to host
a number of different websites/blogs, including my own URL forwarding service,
as well as a Teamspeak 3 server and a series of other small utilities.  And
I've had very few problems with it.  My VPSs have restarted unexpectedly from
time to time, but those are few and far between.  Otherwise, it's been a very
good experience.  They also have snapshot backup services for a small fee,
rsync storage space on a remote server for a small fee, they have good web
control panel options (though I don't use a control panel -- my servers are all
CLI-based), and very prompt and thorough customer service.

Oh, and I almost forgot, they have a wide variety of supported operating
systems ready for 1-click install.  I run Ubuntu 10.04, but if that's not your
flavor of choice, they have something for everyone.  I think they even support
Windows Server, but don't quote me on that.  ;-)

Anyway, I highly recommend [you check them out][1]!  =)

[1]: http://vps.net/
